So we now have team metrics, which
ladder up into organizational metrics,
and you should have project metrics
that ladder up into your team metrics,
that then ladder up into
your organizational metrics.
Any project that you undertake
should affect your metrics, and
I don't feel super
controversial in saying that.
I mean, here's a good example.
One of my projects was like,
I just have to recruit cuz I have
positions open and I gotta fill them.
You can argue that eventually
that's gonna affect signups and
time to retention in all of these,
because if I have more people working,
at least it means all my
projects can go faster, right?
So that would be one of them, but anything
that I work on should affect my metrics or
I should change what my
metrics are measuring.
And I don't really feel like
I need to caveat that at all,
I think that's pretty unexceptional.
If you're doing things at work
that don't affect your metrics,
then you're not accomplishing your goals.
So we'll get into this once we get
into writing product specs, but
all of your projects is like,
here are my personal project metrics.
So I don't know, what's a good one here?
Let's say I'm writing a quiz that asks
you, what are your favorite movies?
And so you say, I don't know,
I like Fight Club and
I like Gladiator and I like the Matrix,
I'm a basic white guy [LAUGH].
I like all those movies and I am a basic
white guy, so that stands to reason.
I could make one of my metrics on there,
how many questions answered, how many
people have signed up based on this quiz,
how many people gave me their email?
All of those various different things
that are very specific project metrics.
And that's fine,
we should track all those.
I should have a little mini dashboard of
all these various different things that
I'm tracking.
But keep in mind that ultimately, all
those project metrics are eventually going
to ladder up into how many people
signed up for the process, right?
It's also probably going to
adversely affect my bounce rate,
right, which we set up here
was probably a team metric,
because the more clicks you have
on anything, 100% of the time,
you are going to get less people
that are gonna finish it, right?
So it's okay to trade those off,
but be explicit like,
we expect bounce rate to go down,
we expect signups to go up, or
we expect retention to go up,
or something like that, right?
But the key here is, my project
metrics are designed specifically to
measure things that then ladder
up into my team metrics,
which then in turn ladder up
into organizational metrics.
Does this hierarchy make sense?
Cool, All right,
another bone to pick, this is my favorite
part of coming on Frontend Masters.
I just get to rant about
stuff that bothers me, and
you all have to listen to me, [LAUGH].
Let's talk about CSAT.
It's a lazy metric sometimes.
People will say like, notice up here,
I didn't even talk about customer
satisfaction at all, but
that's what CSAT is, right?
How satisfied are people on my project?
It is something that you should track, it
is something that you should be interested
in, you should have surveys and
things like, hey, how was that experience?
What do you think about it?
Do you have feedback for us?
But it's a relative metric,
as opposed to something signups,
that's empirical, right?
We know exactly how many people signed
up for our service and we know people
on iOS are more likely to sign up than
people on TVs, for example, right?
Those are pretty apples to
apples kind of comparisons,
a signup is a signup is a signup, and
a dollar is a dollar is a dollar, right?
So, it doesn't matter, it's like,
if I can push you to iOS because I know
you're gonna sign up on that,
I'm gonna do that, right?
CSAT, it's a relative metric in that
it's relative to itself, right?
So I'm gonna give you some examples here,
is like,
if I asked you what was your CSAT on
the signup and the billing process?
People don't like giving you money, and so
they're gonna give it a fairly relative
score because the action that you're
asking them to participate in is just
not a fun action, it's necessary, right?
But it's like how was your
experience in giving me money?
They're gonna be like, two,
I don't know, it wasn't bad, but
I didn't wanna give you money, right?
As opposed to, what's your experience I'm
watching this brand new episode of this
really cool show?
It's like, yeah, ten out of ten,
loved it, right?
So if you look at those metrics and
you think that you're comparing apples to
apples like, well, watching awesome show,
ten out of ten, billing team,
you're a 2 out of 10.
Billing team,
you're not doing great, right?
So filling out forms is never fun.
The best you can hope for
is not painful when you're kind of in
these not fun sort of things, right?
Whereas the team watching the show,
if it's not,, I love this product so
much I just wanna explode from happiness,
that team is objectively failing.
To your point,
how do you evaluate what's good?
First of all, it's just hard, that's why
I kinda rant on CSAT a little bit, right?
But it is relative, like if you have a 2
out of a 10, and also when you get 2.1,
it means like, okay, people were less
hateful towards this, that's positive.
They are slightly less remised to
give me money, I like that, right?
So, one, use it as a relative metric,
measure your baseline of where we
are today and then try not to slide back.
That's generally the best advice
I can give you about CSAT.
The other thing that I'll tell you that
a different PM told me is pair it with
another metric that's closely related.
So in billings, it would be like
successful updating of billing
information or
successful accrual of payment information.
That is also really useful, it's like,
all right, we are raising how many
people are successful at this and
we are not lowering CSAT.
That's actually a really
useful insight of like, hey,
we got better at this without
making people hate it more.
Cuz if you got way better at it, but
you're also making people really upset,
you probably actually didn't really
help your product that much, right?
So pair CSAT with something,
that's actually a super useful
way of looking at CSAT.
And actually to your point
of Europe versus the US,
this is my favorite example of that,
the exact same phenomenon.
I used to manage seven SDKs across
various different languages.
Java developers are just salty people,
I don't know what's wrong,
they just don't like things.
I was like, hey, here's a really useful
way to interact with our services,
is like, yeah, but we don't like it,
we don't like you, and
we don't like SDKs, and maybe we
don't like Java, I don't know, right?
But it was always, always super low,
despite the fact that it was a really
well crafted SDK, we spent a lot of
time getting that Java SDK really good.
Whereas the Node.js one,
they were definitely the one that we
focused on the least, and they're like,
this is awesome, we love SDKs,
ten out of ten, but it's seriously broken.
It's like, I know, but everything else in
Node is broken too, so it's fine, right?
So you can't even compare them
across things like that, right?
So this is why CSAT is a bit of a problem.
It can be a top level metric for you,
just make sure you're
treating it appropriately,
pairing it with something else, and
looking at it as a relative metric, right?
So, Yeah, track it but
like recognize the weaknesses of it.
And I am not telling you to not track it,
you should definitely track it.
It's useful to see particularly as in a
relative like, what is our CSAT over time?
Usually that's how you're gonna look
at CSAT and on a graph of like,
what has happened over time?
Because being nine out of ten stars,
that can either be awesome or
that could be awful.
Actually I think a perfect
example of this is Uber and Lyft.
If you're not over a 4.3 on Uber and
Lyft, they kick you off the platform,
because they expect every person to
get five stars every single time.
That's why your Lyft driver asks,
please rate me,
is because if they don't get those
five stars, they get kicked off and
you're literally affecting
their livelihood.
So also be very careful when you give
those people low ratings cuz it actually
can directly affect their ability
to feed themselves, right?
So the worst I do is I generally don't
rate people as they were actually
dangerous, right?
So in that case ,4.3 out of 5,
most of us would be like, yeah,
that seems like a pretty good number.
If you are 4.4 on Lyft,
you are in danger of being fired, right?
>> I feel like there's inflation in those.
>> There is,
there's an expectation that we rate
everything five out of five, right?
Yeah.
>> Well, this is kind of a follow-up
question just to formalize it.
We were talking about it's just
a built-in method to inflate a metric.
Coming from education and health care,
you see this done all the time,
where you just pick a number, and
one year, that's the right number,
the next year, it's too low,
the next year, it's too high.
But it's like we've just blinded
ourselves to the actual conversation.
But what it is is you're kinda seeing just
a self-adjustment to some arbitrary pin
in the map.
How do you approach that, because
software, you have to introduce and
manage the lifecycle of a lot
more of these over time?
>> Yeah, [COUGH] it's, one,
trying not to move the goalposts or
be being explicit when
the goalposts have been moved, and
then having better metrics, right?
A signup is a signup is a signup,
that's why a signup is
a really good metric to track.
That's why none of my projects
are raised CSAT, none of them, right?
It's do this metric and
hope we don't affect CSAT in adverse ways,
almost always, right?
Sometimes it's like, hey,
people don't like our docs,
we probably should figure out how
to raise the CSAT on our docs.
But even then, that's page views or time
to complete intent or something like that.
It's usually that's the metric first,
and then we track the talent of CSAT.
Actually, and another good point about
CSAT, it takes a really long time for
you to do something and
then CSAT to change, right?
That metric moves pretty slowly because,
let's say,
we're talking about docs here, right?
So if I have bad docs, right, and
I have one out of ten on my doc score, and
then I do something and I change it,
and all of a sudden, really good,
all those people are gonna still be
coming back and expecting bad docs.
And if you ask them again after
the change, they're gonna be like, well,
it was bad before, I assume it's
still bad now, one of ten, right, or
two out of 10, because this one was okay,
but it used to be really bad too.
It's gonna take some time to get a bunch
of new people in there that are not jaded
and to also convert some
of the jaded people.
And there's also just still gonna be a lot
of jaded people because it used to be
bad, right?
So that over time is
gonna move really slowly.
It's a tail indicator of actually how
you're doing on those sorts of things.
So that's why it's,
you can look at on day one,
I did this treatment and
I got this amount of signups, and
then on day two, I did this treatment and
I got this amount of signups, right?
You can point out the difference to
those two, they're different, right?
So just be really careful CSAT, that's my
entire spiel there for you
>> What about NPS?
>> Yeah, Net Promoter Scores.
It's kinda the same thing,
it's basically the same.
We tracked NPS really
carefully at Microsoft,
it was one of the big
things they did track.
That one aims to be a bit more
apples-to-apples of like,
hey, NPS is this, Visual Studios is this.
But VS Codes is always higher because it's
free, and people are like, I don't wanna
pay for Visual Studio, everything else
is free, why do I have to pay for that?
70 out of 100, right?
I don't remember what the numbers were.
But I kinda had the same feeling on it,
it's relative to the product itself.
It is slightly more useful in comparing
some things to each other, but
I still view it as, pair it with
something that's gonna describe what's
actually changing in the product.
And try less to affect the NPS directly
and try and make the product better.
That's hard.
>> Yeah, the way I used NPS in the early
days of Frontend Masters was asking
everyone, of course, and then if they
rated us a five or a six, we'd be like,
what could we do to get a seven or
an eight, or if they rated us whatever.
It was just like trying
to get two points up and
asking them that follow-up question,
they gave amazing feedback.
I had probably 5 or 700 conversations-
>> About that.
>> Just by asking them
one simple follow up,
what can we do to get a nine or
a ten if they rated us eight?.
>> Yeah, I mean your point there,
when gathering CSAT scores,
it's usually good to give them freeform
feedback or some sort of feedback.
Like you gave us a six out of seven or
whatever, and here's like,
why did you give us the score?
You will get frequently a lot
of really good feedback.
You will also get a lot
of garbage feedback.
A really good example of this is the docs
on Stripe in particular is like,
all right, here's the docs,
what did you like about this docs page?
And people will be like,
I hated this docs page.
And why did you hate this docs page?
And it's like,
Stripe withheld my payments, right?
Or I got flagged for
fraudulent payments, which is like,
that has nothing to do with our docs,
right?
So some of those can end up being bad,
but the freeform feedback will
frequently end up with, hey, I got
stuck on this portion of the doc, and
it was really hard and
I did this and it worked.
I would have wished that you would
have just called this out really soon.
It's like, that's golden, right?
And you can immediately act on
some of those like that, but yeah,
customer feedback, it's extremely
important and also difficult.